in the intro.
Welcome back to the Yahowah vlog.
I understand some of you who were
listening to the last program reacted
fairly strongly when I said, you know,
I'm fairly convinced that
Adam was Dowd.
Dowd was Adam.
And I turned to this,
not just because of what it said here,
where he spoke of God, you know,
provide me the illumination so that I can
be observant and therefore avoid being
inactive and dying.
And I realized that that's...
indicative of what went wrong in Eden with
the first man made in God's image.
I made that deduction from a number of
things.
One is that Dowd is called the firstborn
of Yahowah,
and yet Yahowah has many sons and daughters
that are part of the covenant long before
the life of
Dowd as the shepherd boy would have been
conceived.
So it is unlikely that he would have
called him that and been so strong about
it where he would say,
God said on numerous occasions that he is
my son, I am his father.
Well,
the one person that he literally conceived
and brought to life as a son of
his would have been Adam.
Adam God conceived from the very fundamental
products, uh product of,
creation of the earth and breathed into
him, he personally breathed into him,
his soul and his Neshamah,
his consciousness and conscience.
And so Dowd fits the description of
firstborn son of God.
The second reason I have said it is
that
It should be apparent, it is to me,
that there is no way that God could
have made the statement that he chose Dowd
when all he would have known is his
first eight years and even those at a
distance when he was shepherding sheep in
Bethlehem,
where there is no reference whatsoever to
God introducing himself or them having a
conversation,
God teaching him anything prior to the
time that
they would meet under the auspices of
Shamuw’el anointing him and Yahowah's
instructions.
And so it isn't possible for God to
say, I know him.
Now, if you want to say, well,
God can see the future.
So he knew what he was going to
turn out to be.
Well, if he saw the immediate future,
he wouldn't have chosen him because it
didn't turn out very good.
And second of all,
the moment God turns to the future to
evaluate a relationship based upon what
it's going to be,
as opposed to enjoying it develop,
then he destroys the whole purpose of it.
So that's not a good answer.
Therefore,
it is logical to deduce that Dowd's soul
was placed in others throughout time,
and that along the way,
God got
to know him and developed an affinity for
him.
And this is something we need to accept
because God can place a soul in anyone
at any time, and he is absolutely...
entitled to play favorites, uh,
particularly on important things.
You know,
if he wants something done and there's
really no one that is paying attention to
him or responding to him,
which is most of human history, uh,
he needs to intervene,
but doesn't want to, um,
contravene free will or make a big scene,
then God's only way of doing it is
to work through people.
And the best thing to do is insert
somebody that he's comfortable working
with, that he can trust,
that he's done things with in the past
and who have proven reliable, observant,
responsive, thoughtful,
and indeed trustworthy.
So this is something that
If we're going to follow along in God's
story, we need to get comfortable with.
You know, a great example was Enoch.
Another example is ElYah.
Clearly, Dowd has more than one life.
And so does the individual in the role
that I am fulfilling for Yahowah.
Turns out far more than what I had
previously anticipated.
But that is God's style.
And it's ingenious for him.
He can keep his story on track and
do so very quietly and methodically and
consistently and deliberately,
comfortably and enjoyably for him.
So this is something that I've come to
appreciate the more that we have studied
his testimony.
And when you consider that, you know,
initially.
And particularly as they were coming to
know the life around them and various
animals,
they developed a fairly good relationship.
And then Adam went through a moment,
certainly a prolonged time,
where he was no longer observant,
no longer particularly responsive.
He wasn't particularly thoughtful and
certainly not trustworthy.
And this actually is invocative of what
happened with Dowd.
And when you consider
Adam's response to God after the episode
with the tree of knowledge,
he passed the buck.
He said, hey, the woman,
she was the one,
the woman you gave me.
She was the one that handed it to
me.
So I ate, you know,
and had you not given me that woman,
it wouldn't have happened.
He's passing the buck.
If you read those.
fifty first psalm it sounds just like
Adam's response to god even worse
And so anyway,
I read the text and you think about,
okay,
what would have happened and why these
terms, why firstborn son was used,
why the implications that we've read in
this, the Thirteenth Mizmowr.
And the whole purpose of Chakmah and Byn,
intelligence and understanding,
is to go from yada and da'ath,
knowing where the pieces of this puzzle,
what they look like,
to fitting them together properly.
So it is my deduction that, indeed,
Adam is Dowd.
It wasn't Dowd's only life prior to being
chosen as a shepherd boy, by the way,
either.
And this would make Dowd six thousand
years old.
And it explains a lot of the timeline,
and I hope to go through this at
one point,
as to why Enoch was allowed to stay
around for a particular time,
why God waited to take him,
because he would make it through the
conclusion of Dowd's life.
You know, Dowd,
at the end of his life,
has a tendency to swirl down a bit,
and that's when God provided...
And that's probably when Chanowk Enoch
earned God's favor when he started looking
after Dowd.
And that would be really the only way
at that point for Chanowk to earn God's
favor because there was nobody else with
whom up to that point Yahowah had a
relationship with other than Dowd.
So it would be by looking after him.
And I checked the timeline.
Indeed, Chanowk Enoch,
would stay here on Earth some fifty years
past.
Dowd's life in fact long enough that he
and his wife um and he evidently liked
his wife a lot because he negotiated
Chanowk negotiate with Yahowah to say all
right i'll uh i'll do this redeployment
thing you know you you need a fixer
you need somebody to go in and resolve
issues um obviously i was decent about it
with Dowd long ago um sure i'll do
it but she comes with me you know
i
Good women are sometimes hard to find.
You find a really good one,
you want to have them accompany you.
So I have a monogamous marriage with lots
of different applications of the same
woman.
Kind of fun.
I was able to deduce other points,
other people that have been represented by
both the soul that is within me and
the one that's within Dowd and also Leah
as my wife going through time.
And I'm afraid that I might scare some
people to death if I go through and
tell you who the others are at this
point.
So we'll hold off on that.
But I've shared here with our team.
who I think I have,
roles I have played, Leia has played,
and that Dowd has played,
so that Yahowah had a chance to get
to know him.
Anyway,
he continues in this particular Mizmowr,
we're considering the thirteenth,
and he says,
you and I are in agreement that it
is essential you consider answering me,
Yahowah.
interesting proclamation.
And for him to say this,
several things have to be true.
One is that he knows now that he
is going to be doing something with Yahowah
that normally would require a response.
And
In the study of the Mow'ed Miqra'ey,
these invitations to meet with God,
it is our responsibility to respond to God
and to meet with him on these dates.
And now by fulfilling the first three and
knowing he's going to do so is just
saying, okay, well,
then the corollary also applies.
Since I'm fulfilling them,
you have a responsibility, Yahowah,
to answer me.
You and I are in agreement that it
is essential that you consider answering
me, my God, illuminate my eyes,
negating the possibility that I become
inactive and die.
Now, this can be read two ways.
One is he recognizes that he was indeed
Adam.
and that he became lethargic,
and God's promise to them was that if
you ignore his advice,
you will in fact die,
particularly if you're not observant,
paying attention to his instructions.
And it also would mean that
that as Dowd volunteered to fulfill Pesach
as the lamb and his body was sacrificed,
he didn't want his soul also to be
extinguished at that time.
So he wanted to make certain that he
continued to be active all the way through
Chag Matsah so that in fact his, oh,
we need the rich man
We need the cover for the books, please.
We're going to put the cover on the
books to keep them from... Well,
rain and books is not a good thing.
So here we go.
We're going to throw the cover on the
bookshelf here.
As for me,
I think I'm going to survive.
It's not going to be long enough.
I'm going to survive and I'm dripped dry.
So that's not an issue and it's not
a particularly cold rain.
So what he's saying is that so long
as he...
is thoroughly observant,
paying attention to what's going on,
remains active through the process,
that he will not die as he fulfills
Pesach,
that he will continue to live through
Matsah and into Bikuwrym.
This is Mizmowr Psalm thirteen three.
So it is by knowing
that we live.
It is through ignorance that we become
susceptible to the plague of death and
die.
To benefit from the covenant,
we must actively engage in it based upon
the conditions Yahowah has illuminated.
The slanderous and disingenuous testimony
of Sha'uwl Paul,
who God calls the plague of death,
as presented in his Christian New
Testament,
Paul wrote the first fourteen books of the
New Testament,
and he inspired the next three or four,
including the book of Acts, Mark,
and Luke,
which became the basis also of Matthew.
And the New Testament prevails by robbing
God and his people of their dignity.
In its place,
he gave rise to the most anti-Semitic
institution the world would ever know.
Christianity demonizes and dehumanizes
Jews,
accusing them of killing the Christian
God.
Pretty preposterous concept, isn't it?
you killed jesus okay well if jesus is
god how did men kill him oh well
they don't have a good answer for that
in response akiba fought one lie with
another and he created judaism which did
as much harm as the as the religion
it was intended to refute particularly to
jews so this continues otherwise pen lest
The one who is in opposition to me
will say, I have prevailed over him.
My adversaries are pleased, rejoicing,
and exalting in their circular reasoning
as I am dislodged and removed,
toppled from my righteous and rightful
position.
Mizmowr lyrics to sing Psalm thirteen
four.
Yeah,
the big issue with Christianity and indeed
with Judaism is that they actually
celebrate a prevailing over Dowd.
Maybe they don't know they're prevailing
over Dowd, but they should.
That's what they have done.
They have robbed Dowd of his title,
son of God, robbed Dowd of his title,
chosen one.
They robbed Dowd of his title, Messiah.
They robbed Dowd of his title, king.
They robbed Dowd of his role returning
with Yahowah.
as king forevermore.
They have robbed Dowd of his role as
savior.
They even robbed Dowd of the fact that
he was the one who was crucified.
He's the one who took our guilt into
Sheowl, into hell.
So Christianity is essentially thievery of
Dowd.
character assassination that has created
the religion,
and they gloat over their mythical
replacement, their caricature,
and pretend that they have somehow
prevailed over what they call the Old
Testament and its laws.
Nothing could be farther from the truth,
but as much as God's people, Jews,
have convoluted the story and have failed
to recognize what Dowd has achieved,
they've hated and abetted their
adversaries,
Yahowah's adversary and Dowd's.
So my adversaries are pleased.
Yeah, of course, the way that
Jews responded to Dowd's fulfillment in
all of the many prophecies regarding his
fulfillment of Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym,
and the fact that Yahowah calls Dowd his
son and that he refers to him multiple
times as the Messiah,
it's astonishing that Jews stood down and
allowed that religion to grow up in their
midst.
It wouldn't have taken much at the time
to annul it, refute it,
and to discredit it,
but they didn't
And so Paul and company used all manner
of circular reasoning to dislodge Dowd,
the Messiah and son of God from his
rightful position.
I mean,
that is anything more to Christianity than
robbing Dowd to create the myth of Jesus.
That's it.
That's the whole religion.
God provided many hundreds of prophecies
pertaining to what his then son and
Mashyach, Messiah,
would accomplish together.
Many were scribed in first person,
and well, they are abundantly clear.
None of them are transferable.
Yet Jews dismissed them,
and Christians stole them.
As a result,
countless millions have been deprived of
the benefits that Dowd delivered.
Life
being rendered not guilty,
being adopted into the covenant,
being enriched, being empowered,
emancipated, all of that.
They deny themselves by miscasting Dowd.
So the king's adversaries are religious
Christians and Jews because both sought to
systematically remove him from his exalted
and rightful position alongside Yahowah.
doing so by either renouncing or
transferring his acclaim using circular
reasoning.
The consequence, as noted,
has been horrendous,
causing Gentiles to believe it is their
God-given right to denigrate Jews while
negating the revelations God made through
them.
They have cursed themselves.
Now,
failing to recognize that Dowd is the
Messiah,
that this left Jews estranged from both
father and son.
They would be enslaved, segregated,
subjugated,
and impoverished by more people and in
harsher conditions than any ethnicity in
history.
And yet,
even throughout the Gentile-inspired
genocide of the Holocaust,
A remnant would survive.
Many of them will come home at the
right time.
Psalm after psalm,
prophet after prophet have told the same
story,
revealing the ecstasy associated with
God's beloved son opening the door to
understanding and to life and the agony of
having ignorant men convolute his intent
such that his children were abused rather
than blessed.
It is the story of man superimposing his
myths over Yahowah's witness and leading
countless generations astray.
The Mizmowr reads,
and yet I myself have trusted and relied
upon batach.
I have placed my confidence in and I
have become safe and secure by your
Chesed.
Your loyal love, enduring devotion,
unfailing kindness, favoritism, and mercy.
My thoughts and inclinations, my leb,
my heart, judgment, devotion to reason,
inner nature and disposition,
my character and my very basis for living.
Rejoice in your yashuw'ah, freedom,
deliverance,
and salvation your liberation and rescue
from harm's way psalm 13:5 so Dowd initially
approached Yahowah by closely examining the
evidence he had provided in his Towrah then
he carefully considered the implications
of god's teaching and guidance and
responded appropriately but you know to be
fair
He had moments of grandeur, but many,
many,
many others that were far less ideal.
He did not have good parenting,
and as a result,
when afforded great power, he abused it.
And Dowd actually became more embittered
against Yahowah than Moshe did during the
Exodus.
The worst meltdown that exists really is
presented in Second Samuel as Dowd chases
after Bathsheba and then connives to have
her husband killed and then.
lambaste God, uh, in the 51st
Mizmowr is, I mean,
the only reason it could have been
retained for us is to really show us
how far he had fallen.
And at this point,
God had no communication with Dowd.
He was speaking to him, um,
through Nathan.
And the last conversation with Nathan is,
uh, uh, to, uh,
really show his anger at Dowd.
He told a heart-wrenching story to Dowd
through Nathan.
And when Dowd responded, said, oh God,
that's just awful.
That man ought to die for all that
he has done.
And Nathan said, you are that man.
And so it would take an intervention.
Dowd would need the loving,
support of a mother that he had not
known and the discipline, really,
the modeling of being judgmental of a
father.
And it couldn't be just any woman or
man.
It would have to be a pair that
were resolutely Tor observant.
that knew what God said,
that cared about what God said,
that thought about it,
that had made the connections,
because they would have to use everything
that they had learned over that lifetime
to resolve the king's bitterness towards
God.
Otherwise, it was all for naught.
There would be no fulfillment of the Mow'ed
Miqra'ey.
There would be no homecoming of God.
There would be no restoration of the
earth.
It would all devolve into nothingness,
and God would just walk away and never
return.
So it was a lot at stake,
and God had an ingenious way of resolving
it.
And we walked, go through.
The Miqra'ey, all seven of them,
spoke of which he would fulfill,
which we would fulfill,
where he would return,
and what the benefits would be for
everyone, including him,
by fulfilling the spring, Mowedym.
And when he did so,
Dowd became our savior.
Now, for the rest of us,
the process is straightforward.
Observation leads to knowing.
Knowing,
if you make the right connections,
leads to understanding and comprehension.
This leads to trusting Yahowah to provide
deliverance, freedom, salvation,
doing so through His Son.
doing what he did better than anyone who
has ever lived as a songwriter.
Although I think my wife is going to
challenge him in this regard.
I think that what she is able to
achieve now and writing the lyrics and
melodies for songs and conceiving the
vocals for them and having the team and
she create the graphics.
I think she is...
reaching an entirely new level.
And Dowd says,
I will sing to Yahowah because he rewards
men and seeks recompense.
Gamal, he deals fairly with me,
bountifully bestowing benefits on me like
all the children he raises and weans me
while requiring on my half restitution and
accountability.
Psalm thirteen six since we have two
equally valid ways to translate Gamal as
rewards or recompense and since both apply
and are fair when properly attributed I
thought we should include both within the
closing lyrics of the song we should
admire and appreciate Yahowah for doing
both,
for honoring his promise to bless his
covenant family while holding those
accountable who have sought to denigrate
and abuse Yahowah, his covenant family,
and those who serve with God.
So as is our custom,
here is that Mizmowr,
it was a short one,
from beginning to end.
To the enduring leader, a song of Down,
the beloved.
Yahowah, for how long,
especially on behalf of the restoring
witness,
will you allow me to be overlooked?
He knew the answer, of course,
because I had told him.
Enduring eminence, eternal director.
For what extent of time will you conceal
the direct and close association of your
presence with regard to me?
It wasn't actually concealed,
but the fact is the words were there,
but Jews and Christians never saw them.
For how long,
and on behalf of the restoring witness to
the eternal testimony,
will I set forth ah etsah counsel and advice from
the tree of knowledge through my soul?
It was Dowd's soul who
would be the source of the Tree of
Lives,
and it was the Tree of Knowledge that
would explain how to capitalize on what
Dowd's Nepesh soul would do.
The dissatisfaction of having been pushed
away, which is what everyone, Christians,
Muslims, Jews have done.
Disregarded and discarded.
It's upon my heart and my thinking every
day.
It would have to weigh heavily on him.
It's one thing to make the sacrifice to
fulfill Pesach by being crucified and
Matsah by carrying our guilt into Sheowl,
hell.
And it's another thing to be disregarded
for it, to have...
the religions of Christianity in
particular and then Judaism actually steal
from Dowd what he had achieved.
Can you imagine making a sacrifice of that
extent only to have your own people not
only rob you of it but replace you
with a false messiah?
Claiming the false messiah was going to be
the savior and that false messiah led to
the diaspora and to the renaming of the
land Palestina
to the death of thousands and millions of
Jews and shuttles and Holocaust and the
like when Dowd was offering salvation.
So you and I are in agreement that
it is essential that you consider
answering me, my God.
um in the case of most of us
our role is to respond to god that's
my role god has something he wants to
communicate something he wants done and
when we answer the call and respond to
him good things happen
Dowd was in a unique position in
fulfilling the spring Mowedym,
and that he was now reliant on God
responding to what they would achieve
together.
So illuminate my eyes,
negating the possibility that I become
inactive, lethargic, and die.
He did not want to repeat the situation
that caused the estrangement.
in Gan Eden.
Otherwise,
the one who was in opposition to me
will say, I have prevailed over him.
That would be ha-Satan and the religious
founders like Akiba and Paul and Muhammad.
My adversaries are pleased,
rejoicing and exalting in their circular
reasoning.
I am dislodged and removed,
toppled from my rightful position.
Circular reasoning is an interesting term.
You know the basis of the word church?
You won't find church anywhere in the
Greek text of the Christian New Testament.
It doesn't exist.
Church doesn't exist.
Christian doesn't exist.
Gospel doesn't exist.
The name Jesus doesn't exist,
nor does Christ.
But church is interesting here.
Church is...
is a replacement for ekklesia,
when Paul and Pals wrote ekklesia,
which means in Greek to call out.
Some numbskull along the way said, oh,
well, we'll give that a title.
I don't like the Greek text,
called out of what?
We don't want to call it out.
We want to control them.
Come on, call them into our building.
We'll call it a house of God.
We'll fleece 'em.
We'll control them.
We can't have called out.
Called out sounds too much like, well,
that Jewish thing, the Miqra, to be,
you know, invitations to be called out.
We can't have that.
So we can't have it translated called out.
So let's come up with something else.
Oh, I know.
I got a great idea.
Let's choose church.
That'll be great.
I can hear Satan laughing now.
Circe is only one entity that was named
Circe.
And she was the daughter of Helios in
their Germanic religions.
So pervasive across Europe.
Her name was Circe and pronounced just
like Church.
And so she was a pagan goddess.
So they named their...
institution, their regime,
their assembly after a pagan goddess.
Well, I guess it fits because, well,
the gospel of grace is named after the
gratia, who were the Greek charities.
They're the cute little naked girls that
are the party animals.
So Christianity has some explaining to do
in this regard.
And yet I myself have trusted, oh,
I was going to say that one other
aspect of Circe because of circular
reason,
I should at least close my thought here
and complete it.
It is from Circe and now church that
we get circle, circuit,
and circus all come from that same word.
So they are circular reasoning indeed.
And yet I myself have trusted and relied
upon your loyal love, enduring devotion,
unfailing kindness, and genuine mercy.
Yahowah is steadfast in this regard.
He is trustworthy.
He is reliable.
He is loyal.
He is loving.
He is devoted.
He is kind.
And he plays favorites.
Dowd recognized that.
I don't know why others don't.
My thoughts and inclinations rejoice in
your freedom, deliverance, and salvation.
Yes, God is offering us emancipation,
deliverance from our guilt so that we are
free of it.
We're acquitted.
We're innocent.
God only sees now the good in us
and rejoice indeed because, well,
we're going back to Gan Eden,
the garden of great joy.
Dowd says,
I will sing to Yahowah because he rewards
men and seeks recompense.
Shyr here is a loaded term.
He picked it up from Eythan Ha Ezrachy
who was a bit famous for using the
word when speaking of his ongoing
interactions on behalf of Yahowah.
And it is true.
that Yahowah rewards some and seeks
recompense from others.
That's why we began our previous program
talking about those who will be rewarded
and those from whom recompense will be
sought.
All right,
since we have a few more minutes,
I think before it drizzles again,
sorry for the black cape around the books,
but they really don't like water at all.
We will continue a little further.
And as I have shared in volume two
of Coming Home, it's called Messiah,
we are often wise to take a moment
to contemplate
what other prophets have to say about the
things that were written by Dowd in these
Mizmowr.
We've now made our way through the first
thirteen,
and of course in other programs I've
shared from many others.
So as we think about what is revealed
about the Mashyach and Melek Dowd,
the Messiah and King,
there is a distinguished list of prophets
who have amazing things to say,
affirming things to say.
They, of course,
begin with Moshe who wrote of Dowd and
the eighteenth chapter of
Dabarym, Deuteronomy.
His contemporary,
a really fine man named Shamuw’el,
listened to God.
Nathan,
the gift who Yahowah spoke through during
his time where he wasn't speaking directly
to Dowd.
Eythan Ha Ezrachy,
who is the person that God perpetually
used at times like this when
There was a problem that needed to be
resolved,
and God needed someone to go in that
he could rely on to get it done.
His guy was Eythan Ha Ezrachy.
He operated under different names at
different times,
but in this time pursuant to Dowd,
that's the name that he used.
Also, he used Obed-Edom at that time.
Other times he was called MyDod,
relevant with regard to Dowd.
But he is first introduced to us as
Chanowk.
Then there is Howsha.
There is Yashayah, Isaiah,
my favorite prophet.
Yirma'yah,
I'm not trying to slight Yirma'yah,
as there's many,
many spectacular revelations through the
prophet Yirma'yah.
And, oh my, the closing statements,
in fact,
the entire book of Zakaryah is indeed
brilliant.
So these are some that we will consider.
Oh, to that list too,
you'd have to add Yow'el.
And how about the prophet Chabaquwq?
Embrace this.
He provides an amazingly detailed and
comprehensive condemnation of Paul,
who is Dowd's principal adversary.
The plague of death is the author,
of course, of the Christian New Testament.
But God calls him the plague of death.
And while that's vital on its own merit,
the intrigue is highlighted by the fact
that Paul quotes from Chabaquwq.
He also quotes from Dowd.
And he's the one that said that Dowd
was dead and buried.
Not so much, pal.
The very prophecies which were written to
condemn death
Paul cited, which makes those kind of fun.
And this affirms a sad reality.
Satan is convinced that no matter how
obvious he conveys that the likes of Paul
and Muhammad were working for him and
therefore demon-possessed,
mankind is genuinely so ignorant and
irrational,
particularly once they become religious.
They'll drink down the poison from the
hands of the adversary.
Further,
There is also an interesting declaration
in the Towrah, as I've shared with you,
found in Bamidbar, and that'd be Numbers,
where it provides advice to God's people,
encouraging them to come home to the
covenant family.
in our time,
which is during the last days.
The prophetic declaration reveals that the
descendants of Israel and Yahuwdah,
more commonly known as Jews today,
must come to appreciate certain things
regarding the inspired words and enduring
promises of the Most High if they want
to understand why Yahowah is both necessary
for them and sufficient.
Now, this yada realization leads to da'ath,
a rational response,
drawing our attention to the implications
of an extraordinary individual's journey,
really from
this individual uh exceptional individual
and we will chronicle his life and time
and he is one who would not arrive
for a protracted period according to god
but yet is somebody that he wants us
to know this descendant of Ya'aqob is called
a kowkab a luminary
That would make him perhaps the greater
luminary.
And he is the darak set forth to
show the way.
Now, fortuitously,
now based upon our multiple reviews,
an ongoing review of the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr,
we realize that he is speaking of Dowd.
And also recognize this as we consider the
first chapter of Bare’syth,
the first book in the Towrah.
The prophecy foretells that as he comes
forth to lead God's family,
the scepter is reestablished in Yisra'el.
And with it,
Dowd will immediately lash out against his
people's most daunting foes.
Mow'ab is specifically mentioned.
Which means, who is your father?
And Mow'ab.
That's an interesting thing just because
it's used,
bandied about by the socialist
progressives today and by the religious
and their boisterous rebellions.
And along with them,
Yahowah's protective shepherd will conquer
Edowm.
Edowm being particularly interesting
because that's derived from Ya'aqob's twin
brother.
The legacy, and I think to some extent,
Edowm became the legacy of Imperial Roman,
the Roman Catholic Church.
It speaks of, as we hear about Esau,
he had particularly curly hair and he was
a reddish color.
Most don't know it, but Caesar,
that title, doesn't mean king.
It means curly in Latin.
which means that evidently Iesous, Julius,
as he is now known as Julius Caesar,
was hairy.
And that's how that title followed him.
And Rome is best known for adorning their
Everything, really.
And red.
That was the color of Rome, boy.
You know,
it's like Tiger Woods on Sunday where it's
Sunday red and you dare not wear a
red shirt or you'll be condemned of
stealing Tiger's look.
Well, Rome showed up in red.
And if you showed up in red,
then you were trying to impersonate Rome.
And so I see...
Traces,
clues between Edom and Imperial Rome,
which grew into the Roman Catholic Church,
disposing and dispossessing Jews while
incarcerating the satyr,
as we're going to find here, the satyr,
in this story, which represents Satan,
whom they clearly worshipped.
in the process.
And as a result, Israel shall live.
So this is an interesting excerpt.
It's from Bamidbar,
becoming one of my very favorite books.
It's not just a favorite book in the
Towrah, one of my favorite books, period.
Just every time you turn to something in
Bamidbar,
there is a powerful prophetic lesson.
So this reads, so now at this time,
behold, I am going to approach my people.
You and I have agreed to walk together.
I have decided to provide counsel to you
to show the way to the benefits of
the relationship regarding what the people
will engage in and act upon regarding your
family in the last days.
Well, that's really interesting.
So, um,
God is speaking to Israel and therefore
through them to us by way of Moshe.
And he says, so now at this time,
I want you to pay attention.
Behold, I am going to approach my people.
You and I have agreed to walk together.
I have decided to provide counsel to you.
to show you the way to the benefits
of the relationship regarding what the
people will engage in,
what they're going to engage in and act
upon,
what they're going to do regarding your
family in the last days.
So the purpose of this is for us
now.
God,
three thousand four hundred and fifty
years ago,
gave prophetic insights in his Towrah of
what we would experience now so that we
could share that with you so that you
were apprised and forewarned.
The prophetic declaration, the name,
of the one who listens to the enduring
promises,
future proclamations,
and the inspired words of God,
and who knows and makes known,
that would be Yada.
Information leading to understanding,
Da'ath is also a reference to Yada as
the Choter.
He has the spirit of Da'ath.
Regarding Elyown,
Now,
that's translated most of the time as most
high, but that's really not accurate.
The reason it's not accurate is El would
be God,
and it can be rendered mighty one or
that sort of thing, but El is God.
Own as an ending would mean all things
pertaining to.
But it's got a yod in the middle,
which speaks in ancient Hebrew of a hand
reaching out to us.
And the yod, which was originally a yod,
hand, was used to speak of influence,
of action, of things that you do,
the way that you could influence things
around you.
The hand of God, for example.
So Elyown would be all things pertaining to
the influence of God.
You know somebody that bears the title
Elyown?
Dowd.
Dowd, absolutely.
You're pretty safe if you give Dowd as
the answer to most questions.
But this one in particular,
Dowd is the only person who is called
Elyown.
There are
There are some who covet the title,
Satan in particular,
in the fourteenth chapter of Yashayah,
Isaiah, covets the title Elyown,
which means that he wants to be Dowd.
He wants to replace Dowd,
which is what Jesus Christ actually
represents.
So here we have a Yada.
And we have a Da'ath and an Elyown.
Now,
that's pretty interesting because the
Choter is Da'ath.
The Choter is the tree of knowledge.
And he is called the Etsah Da'ath,
which means he is the tree of knowledge
in Yashayah, Isaiah.
And he is known to God as the
one who knows Yada.
And his role is to reestablish the
reputation of Elyown,
the one who represents the influence in
hand of God,
who prophetically beholds Chazah,
the revelation, the mach 'azah of Shaday.
I love this word.
Shaday is just so Yahowah.
it doesn't mean almighty again.
No.
Shaday means the one who is essential and
sufficient.
The one who is required, reliable,
and capable.
God wants you to know that he's
sufficient.
While descending from an elevated
position, it was revealed to his eyes.
Bamidbar, 24:16.
So he's talking about us.
I see him in the future.
Emphatically expressing his will with
ongoing implications throughout time.
But not now at this time.
My perceptions of his journey do not occur
any time soon.
as a luminary,
a brilliant celestial body of enormous
heavenly power.
He shall shoot out and come forth to
show the way for Ya'aqob, for Yisrael.
Yeah, he will indeed.
He is the Choter.
That is a shoot.
And his mission is to show Ya'aqob the
way back home.
And in the first chapter of Bare’syth,
Genesis,
he is depicted as the lesser luminary who
reflects the brilliance of the greater
luminary's light.
The greater luminary would be dot, Elyown,
again.
So these are all terms that God is
using knowing.
we'll pick up on them that we will
understand the implications of these words
as they apply to god's ongoing story and
it says in the tribe the with the
scepter and the shepherd's staff the
shebet will rise and be established out
of israel then he shall strike the borders
of mow'ab the
politically correct the multiculturalists,
the Christians.
Who's your father, really?
While breaking all the descendants of
Seth, the boisterous, rebellious,
and defiant. 24:17
And so,
out of Ya'aqob of the tribes and the separate
and the scepter and the shepherd staff all
of which apply to Down he is going
to arise and be established in Yisra'el he's
going to return to mount mowryah on the
second of october twenty thirty three year
six thousand yeah and it's what um
the one serving Yahowah in this role,
Yada,
is going to do that's going to make
that return possible.
So he's going to be established out of
Yisrael,
and then he will strike the borders of
Mow'ab and break the descendants of Seth,
the boisterous, rebellious, and defiant.
As God reestablishes this remnant of
Yisrael to be there to usher their king
home,
God's going to rid the world of all
traces of religion and politics,
conspiracy, anti-Semitism, and militarism.
So this is speaking of what's going to
happen on Taruwah.
leading to Kipurym.
And it shall come to pass that Edowm,
representing probably Rome,
the Roman Catholic Church,
shall be defeated and conquered,
and also Se'iyr,
the goat demon and idol.
The Se'iyr would be the satyr.
In opposition to him,
will be incarcerated and held captive.
And then Yisrael will engage and act
victoriously and powerfully.
All right,
so a lot's going to go on.
At the time that I would have translated
this,
I would not have known what I know
now, that the Rahab,
the
combination of Satan and man, um,
that is so devilish, um,
that is now pursuing the fourth Reich.
Uh, he is a, a dictator, um,
akin to Adolf Hitler.
He has, um,
embodied all of the Roman-esque, uh,
things from ancient Rome.
You know, the, you had the, uh,
Imperial Rome become the, uh,
Roman Catholic Church,
which was then usurped by Hitler to become
the Third Reich and now by Trump to
become the Fourth Reich.
And so this is what he represents.
In fact,
his coming out party in Jerusalem will
take place on the Ides of March,
which is the most celebrated day in
ancient Rome.
It not only celebrates the basis of their
Easter,
the things that they observed on behalf of
Bacchus and Dionysus.
They really liked Dionysus better than
Bacchus, same God, but different name.
And all of those events were celebrated on
the Ides of March,
but this is also the day that Julius
Caesar was stabbed to death.
And Rome went from the Roman Republic to
Imperial Rome with the emperors being
perceived as gods.
So there was really nothing that was
more...
extraordinary for Satan and his creation
of what would become Christianity through
the Roman Catholic Church than these
actions,
nor his segregation and oppression of
Israel than what happened as a result of
this.
I mean,
it was very shortly after this that we
find Israel occupied and pummeled
And so this is a message to Israel.
These are who are going to be involved.
And he calls this demon idol that is
Rahab elsewhere a se'iyr in this particular
statement.
And he's finally at the end of this,
this happens on Taruwah in year six
thousand YAH,
the twenty fourth of September,
twenty thirty three.
Satan is incarcerated.
He is held captive forevermore.
And then Yisrael will will engage and
become vigorous and powerful again by
Bamidbar,
by pondering the word Numbers twenty four
eighteen.
So, yes, even in the Towrah.
We find Yahowah calling his people home
while predicting how Yada and Dowd will
work together with Yahowah as the greater
and lesser luminaries to quell Yisrael's
foes and restore the nations of its vigor.
His advice is to be there in the
last days when all of this occurs.
We will examine so many more prophecies as
we go forward.
Our hope is that over these,
particularly this next month,
that we will
detour a little bit away from presenting
twistianity as we are downstairs,
and a little bit from presenting these
Mizmowr,
Dowd's thoughts and our ongoing
explanation of who Dowd is,
restoring his rightful place,
as well as Yahowah's name.
And even the last word picture,
although we have quite a ways to go
in our development of all we can learn
from it,
because what we're planning on doing is to
examine...
There was a hand that reached for my
iced tea there,
not knowing that that is my go-to when
the throat gets a little bit parched.
I do have a tendency to talk a
lot.
that we're going to do a number of
shorter programs on the key elements of
what we have learned.
You know, what is the covenant?
How do you participate in it?
What are the Mowedym?
What do they represent?
How do we know who fulfilled them and
how we are to capitalize on them?
How do they pertain to being part of
God's family?
How do we know the proper pronunciation of
Yahowah's name?
What is it that we know about Dowd
that is so different than what...
people have been led to believe.
What is the future of Israel over these
next seven years?
Who is Yada?
And who is the Choter?
Who is the Nakar,
the observant foreigner that Yahowah has
spoken of?
And why should it matter to you?
Why these books exist as Yada Yahowah,
why we chose this unique translation style
to convey God's intent and message to you.
What does Towrah actually mean in terms of
guidance and teaching and not law?
How does God work and communicate to
people?
And why did he choose that very unique
approach of teaching
working and speaking through individuals
of his choice over time as opposed to
directly why god hates religion and
prefers the covenant relationship instead
the very nature of our planet,
and how it relates to the microcosm of
Eden,
and how these are really similar things,
how God's going to return the planet back
to the conditions of Eden,
and what He is expecting from us.
Why there won't be many that will
participate in the upcoming Shabuwah
harvest, because God can't trust them.
and why we have a thousand years to
help people earn god's trust so they can
be enriched and empowered and be able to
leave this planet and explore the universe
with the one who created it there are
just so many themes that i want to
be able to share the nature of the
hebrew language and how it is a
replete with verbs that are not stuck in
time but that are all shaped and shaded
so as to express relationships and free
will uh causation it's just so many just
fundamental core things that are important
to know and we're going to do our
best to explain them
And so they'll just be turn on the
camera.
We'll do fifteen,
thirty minutes on one subject and try to
explain it the best we can go on
to the next and then the next and
the next and leave a interesting legacy of
the fundamental footsteps that one would
take to out of religion,
out of politics and into God's company.
So that's part of what we're going to
do going forward.
And so hopefully Rich is able to capture
some of Miss Leia with Kara sitting here
to the bench and Wookie here as the
loyal dog at my feet.
Asher not too far away as the
Menacing clouds continue to blow by.
It's getting chilly here,
which means that rain is imminent.
And so we'll say thank you for listening.
And we will try to duck out of
the wetness here and cover up the rest
of our equipment.
Thank you so much.
Look forward to being with you tomorrow.
Good day.
Hey there.
Thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.